# Help Rich Info Get Richer

**[ProVerB](http://slebok.github.io/proverb/)**, or **Program Verification Book**, is a project collecting information about software tools for program verification of all kinds, starting from simple libraries for manipulating some specific kind of automata, to elaborate platforms for building complicated tools. Each entry contains data and metadata, describing what the tool does, what are its inputs and outputs, how formal are certain kinds of artefacts that it requires, when was it published, is the source code available, etc.

This BSc final project involves reviewing, enriching and, if necessary, redesigning the data model of the project, and coevolving the existing entries accordingly. For example, now many entries contain a link to a GitHub repository with the tool's source code: one can easily imaging writing a helper script that follows that link, checks for its availability, records the timestamp of the last commit and improves the entry by explicitly stating when was the source code last updated. Going one step further, perhaps it is not enough to have one link, and in some cases we need separate links to the library, the particular tool, the experimental data used in a particular paper, etc. Perhaps listing academic contributors (authors of the linked papers) should be done next the listing the implementation contributors (people with many commits to the linked repository). The project is open and can be extended or refined to the wishes and creative ideas of the student.

Get in touch with your [potential future supervisors](mailto:v.zaytsev@utwente.nl,s.a.m.lathouwers@utwente.nl) to discuss details!
